PySplot User Manual
--It ain't pretty, but this does explain the functionality--
Written by: Dr. Joshua Thomas
Contact: thomas.joshd@gmail.com

For "installation" instructions, see the file INSTALL.

For a general overview of the features and requirements, see README.md

General Program Tips

The purpose of this file is to guide you through using pysplot to examine and
modify 1D spectra.  PySplot assumes you have a 1D extracted, wavelength
calibrated spectrum (though it will open one not wavelength calibrated).

The keyboard shortcuts for various functions in the application are in () in
the menus.  For example, open is (o).  The shortcuts are case sensitive, most
are lowercase.  They also for the most part only work in the window with the
attached menu.  So (o) doesn't do anything if the header window is in focus.

The "Prompt:" and "Input:" boxes above the plot area, but below the menu are
for program interaction.  The prompt is how the program "talks" to the user,
sometimes with hints on how to use a function once selected from a menu or
keyboard shortcut.  Any measurement is also displayed in the prompt.  The input
 box starts with a default "1" and is the default integer used in the
 normalization routine.  Very few functions use the input currently.

On Windows and Linux the file menus have  -------- lines at the top, if you
click this it "tears out" the menu giving you a new mini window, useful if you
like to think of "tool bars".

The plot window has 3 modes: single spectrum, over plot, and stack plot.  The
modes that display multiple spectra will trigger a side pane with an
interactive list.  The pane can be hidden with buttons or shortcuts.
By clicking on a spectrum in the sidepane it will go into single plot mode and
display the selected spectrum. The button "Remove Selected" can now be used to
remove a specific spectrum from the stack.  At this point you need to tell it
what type of plot you want overplot ([) or stackplot (]), and the stack will
be replotted.

The icons at the bottom of the plot window are the matplotlib interactive plot
 buttons.  "Home" resets to the original view.  The + lets you pan.  The
 magnifying glass lets you zoom in.  The left arrow takes you back one view
 edit, and the right arrow takes you forward in you view edit.  The subplot
 button isn't much use here, its part of the toolbar from matplotlib.  The
 "save" icon lets you save the displayed graph in your favorite image format.
 At the lower right are the x and y positions of the cursor.


Menus

File menu:
The file menu lets you open spectra, and lists of spectra. When in single plot
mode it will say choose a spectrum and default to fits (windows/Linux).  In a
multi spectra mode it defaults to a list file, but again not on Mac.  Any type
of file can be opened regardless of what the window title says (the program
will switch to multiplot mode if you select a list).  However, once you are in
multiplot mode it assumes any further lists or fits files are to be added to
the stack.  You can also select more than one file at a time with control or
shift click on Linux/windows.

Opening fits or headerless text spectra is done from the File>open menu (o).

Restore only makes sense in the context of single plot mode, and is for when
you mess up a normalization.

Header opens up the header window and displays the header.  Keywords and
values can be added or changed.  Double clicking on a keyword will let you edit
 that keyword without having to type it out.

Save new fits only works for one file at a time in single plot mode, the same
goes for save headerless text spectrum.

Close all spectra clears the stack.  This function is also "Stack clear" under
 the stack menu.

Exit, stage left.

The view menu.
These modes can be changed from the view menu, and their keyboard shortcuts.
Reset replots the spectra, and clears any regions and measurements.

Modify Menu
Generally these functions change the spectrum in someway.

The functions above the first horizonal line are all tied to continuum
normalization.

Set Continuum regions must be done before trying to run Normalize.

Normalize will try to fit a polynomial of the order in the input box.

Reset the normalization parameters clears the regions and the polynomial power.

You can save and load the normalization parameters, which consists of the
regions and the power used.

Boxcar smooth, at present each click is set to a box width of 3.  This may be
changed in the future, as well as adding other smoothing functions, say
convolutions.

Crop spectra appears in the region menu too, because it uses the region, but
will automatically run the region function if no region is present.  A click on
 the left and right ends of the spectrum where you would like to make a new
 fits.  Only the horizontal cursor value matters Once trimmed you can't undo at
  present.  At this point if you save new spectrum from the file menu you'll
  have a smaller spectrum.

Convert Wavelength to velocity and back doesn't permanently change the spectrum,
 only the display.  The horizontal location of the cursor is used as the zero
 for the velocity, you must click where you want zero to be.


Region Menu

There are two main region types here.  The functions are separated by a
horizontal line were the type of region differs.  Equivalent width, Gaussian,
Voigt, Lorentzian, and Crop will all launch the "Define Region (x)".  This is
generally a click to the left and right of what you want to measure.  For the
equivalent width measurement you'll want to click as close as possible to the
parts of the spectrum you want to use.  However, the software will find the
closest datum to your click in the data and not use the actual x and y of your
click.  For the line fits it only cares about the horizontal location of your
click.  Once a region is created, any of the functions that use it can be run
on that same selection.  When you are done with the selected region, you can
use "Clear Region (r)", which is the same as reset.

For any measurement made the results are displayed in the prompt, printed to
the terminal, and saved to a logfile in the working directory.

Regions can be saved/loaded.  Once saved, you can edit them in a text editor
if you require specific points.

The other type of region is the bisect region, which consists of 4 total clicks.
  A pair on the left and a pair on the right edges of the feature you are trying
   to bisect.  The range of points on the left, and the range of points on the
   right are averaged to find the average bisector of the feature.  Again the
   closest data are chosen to the clicks.

The bisect regions can be saved/loaded.


Stack Menu

The stack menu allows some degree of automation.  Many of the functions in this
list have the same names as functions in the other menus.  However, these
"duplicate" functions do not have the same shortcuts because there is a helper
function in the program that will run the function on each spectrum in the list.

Stack plot mode can be toggled here.

Showing the stack pane can be toggled.

Remove Selected From Stack will only work once you've selected a single
spectrum from the sidepane, and is the same function as the button on the
sidepane.

Detailed Database Entry is a testing function to see what data are stored
with each spectrum.

Print stack list prints the spectra in the stack to the

Save Stack List allows you to save a list of spectra you are happy with and
load it later from the file menu.

Stack Clear does the same thing as "Close All Spectra" in the file menu.

Normalize requires that you have already defined or loaded normalization
regions and powers.  It will apply that to the entire stack, save new files,
and prompt you to save a list of the normalized spectra in a new list.

Equivalent Width, Gaussian, Voigt, Lorentzian, Crop all require you to have
created a region from the region menu.

Crop will save new files and prompt you to save a new list of the cropped files.

Bisect will require that you have defined or loaded a bisect region.


Help Menu
About, launches a new window with the version, contact info, etc.  And a link
 to GitHub to check for updates (you check, not automatic).
